TheThe Cherokee Nation Veterans Center helps veterans access benefits and services from the Department of Veteran Affairs and other agencies both internal and external to the Cherokee Nation. The Cherokee Nation Office of Veteran Affairs staff is available to all veterans. Services are also provided regardless of the nature of the veteran’s discharge. This includes service provision to those individuals with problematic discharge. The staff with the Cherokee Nation Office of Veteran Affairs works closely with personnel within the Department of Health Services Administration, the Department of Veteran Affairs, and other federal, state and city agencies and organizations. The goal is to identify and link eligible veterans with available resources through a comprehensive network of services.

Each war is different. Attitudes and homecomings change. The Cherokee Nation Office of Veteran Affairs offers common ground for men and women who served our country. Veterans can take advantage of the experience, service and community networking. The Cherokee Nation Office of Veteran Affairs is ready to help.

The Cherokee Nation Office of Veteran Affairs services are free and confidential to all veterans. The staff respects the privacy of veterans, and hold in the strictest confidence all information disclosed. No information will be communicated to any person or agency without written consent from veterans, except in circumstances to avert crisis.
  Veteran Counseling Services
Readjustment Counseling Service
Vet Center Services- Readjustment counseling is a wide range of services offered to eligible Veterans and their families in the effort to make a successful transition from military to civilian life. 

Services offered at Vet Centers nationwide include:

Individual and group Counseling for Veterans and their families
Family counseling for military related issues
Bereavement counseling
Military sexual trauma counseling and referral
Outreach 
Substance abuse assessment and referral
Employment referral
Referral to other VA services
Community education 
Eligibility
Any Veteran or active-duty Service member, to include federally-activated members of the National Guard and Reserve components, who:

Has served on active military duty in any combat theater or area of hostility.
Experienced a military sexual trauma while serving on active military duty;
Provided direct emergent medical care or mortuary services, while serving on active military duty, to the casualties of war;
Served as a member of an unmanned aerial vehicle crew that provided direct support to operations in a combat zone or area of hostility
All readjustment counseling services available at Vet Centers are at no charge to the eligible individual or their family and are also available without time limitation.
Service members and Veterans are not required to enroll in the VA health care system or have received a service connection for conditions caused by military service.
These services are also provided regardless of the nature of the Veteran’s discharge. This includes service provision to those individuals with problematic discharges.
Contact: Matthew Tiger, MSW, LCSW, Readjustment Counselor

Tulsa Vet Center/ Tahlequah Community access point
PO Box 948 Tahlequah, OK 74465
Office phone 800-256-0671 EXT 5693
Cell phone 918-822-2563
Email matthew-tiger@cherokee.org

Veteran Warrior Wellness
Have you ever dealt with stress, anxiety, or PTSD? You are not alone.

The Warrior Wellness program provides a variety of programs and events for veterans to enhance their mental health. With a no closed door policy our staff will assist you using a family approach. Please continue to the information below on how to become a part of our Warrior Wellness family.

Eligibility

All veterans are eligible who meet the criteria.
How to Apply

Contact the program for more information at 918-772-4166
Additional Information

The program provides access to an array of culturally connected holistic services to enhance mental, physical, spiritual, and emotional health. Working alongside Veteran Peer Support Specialists our Family Case Managers provide case management and a host of in-house services. For 24/7 emotional support, reach out to the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline by texting or calling 988 and pressing 1 for services specific to veterans. Our program is in partnership with the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs through the SSG Fox Suicide Prevention grant. Staff Sergeant Parker Gordon Fox Suicide Prevention Grant Program - Mental Health (va.gov)

Services

Legal Aid
Food Security
Cultural Enrichment
Income Support Assistance
Veteran Peer Support

Veteran Food Outreach Program
The Office of Veteran Affairs and the Community Food Bank of Eastern Oklahoma have a partnership to assist approximately 125 veterans and widows of veterans with supplemental food every ninety days as schedules permit. This project is in the Tahlequah area. For more information, contact The Office of Veteran Affairs at 918-772-4166.
